---
layout: post
category : User Attribute Inference
title: Using county demographics to infer attributes of Twitter users
venue: ACL Joint Workshop on Social Dynamics and Personal Attributes in Social Media
authors: Ehsan Mohammady, Aron Culotta
tags : [Twitter, regression, learning from label proportions]
key: ehsan14using
---
{% include JB/setup %}
#### Abstract

Social media are increasingly being used to complement traditional survey
methods in health, politics, and marketing. However, little has been done
to adjust for the sampling bias inherent in this approach. Inferring
demographic attributes of social media users is thus a critical step to
improving the validity of such studies. While there have been a number of
supervised machine learning approaches to this problem, these rely on a
training set of users annotated with attributes, which can be difficult to
obtain. We instead propose training a demographic attribute classifiers that
uses county-level supervision. By pairing geolocated social media with county
demographics, we build a regression model mapping text to demographics. We
then adopt this model to make predictions at the user level. Our experiments
using Twitter data show that this approach is surprisingly competitive with a
fully supervised approach, estimating the race of a user with 80%
accuracy.

#### Citation

	@InProceedings{ehsan2014using,
      author =       {Ehsan Mohammady and Aron Culotta},
      title =        {Using county demographics to infer attributes of Twitter users},
      booktitle = {ACL Joint Workshop on Social Dynamics and Personal Attributes in Social Media},
      year =         2014
    }
