---
layout: post
category : User Attribute Inference
title: 	Finding truth in cause-related advertising: A lexical analysis of brands' health, environment, and social justice communications on Twitter
venue: Journal of Values-Based Leadership
authors: Aron Culotta, Jennifer Cutler, Junzhe Zheng
tags : [Twitter, regression]
key: culotta15finding
---
{% include JB/setup %}
#### Abstract

Consumers increasingly desire to make purchasing decisions based on factors
such as health, the environment, and social justice. In response, there has
been a commensurate rise in cause-related marketing to appeal to
socially-conscious consumers. However, a lack of regulation and
standardization makes it difficult for consumers to assess marketing claims;
this is further complicated by social media, which firms use to cultivate a
personality for their brand through frequent conversational messages. Yet,
little empirical research has been done to explore the relationship between
cause-related marketing messages on social media and the true cause alignment
of brands.  In this paper, we explore this by pairing the marketing messages
from the Twitter accounts of over 1,000 brands with third-party ratings of
each brand with respect to health, the environment, and social
justice. Specifically, we perform text regression to predict each brand's true
rating in each dimension based on the lexical content of its tweets, and find
significant held-out correlation on each task, suggesting that a brand's
alignment with a social cause can be somewhat reliably signaled through their
Twitter communications---though the signal is weak in many cases. To aid in
the identification of brands that engage in misleading cause-related
communication as well as terms that more likely indicate insincerity, we
propose a procedure to rank both brands and terms by their volume of
"conflicting" communications (i.e., "greenwashing"). We further explore
how cause-related terms are used differently by brands that are strong
vs. weak in actual alignment with the cause. The results provide insight into
current practices in cause-related marketing in social media, and provide a
framework for identifying and monitoring misleading communications. Together,
they can be used to promote transparency in cause-related marketing in social
media, better enabling brands to communicate authentic values-based policy
decisions, and consumers to make socially responsible purchase decisions.

#### Citation

    @article{culotta2015finding,
      author =       {Aron Culotta and Jennifer Cutler and Junzhe Zheng},
      journal =        {Journal of Values-Based Leadership},
	  title = {Finding truth in cause-related advertising: A lexical analysis of brands' health, environment, and social justice communications on Twitter},
	  volume = 8,
	  number = 2,
      year = 2015
    }
