---
layout: post
category: User Attribute Inference
title: Are Words Commensurate with Actions? Quantifying Commitment to a Cause from Online Public Messaging
venue: ICDM 2017
authors: Zhao Wang, Aron Culotta
tags: [Twitter, perception]
key: wang2017words
---
{% include JB/setup %}
#### Abstract

Public entities such as companies and politicians
increasingly use online social networks to communicate directly
with their constituencies. Often, this public messaging is aimed
at aligning the entity with a particular cause or issue, such as
the environment or public health. However, as a consumer or
voter, it can be difficult to assess an entity’s true commitment to
a cause based on public messaging. In this paper, we present a text
classification approach to categorize a message according to its
commitment level toward a cause. We then compare the volume
of such messages with external ratings based on entities’ actions
(e.g., a politician’s voting record with respect to the environment
or a company’s rating from environmental non-profits). We find
that by distinguishing between low- and high- level commitment
messages, we can more reliably identify truly committed entities.
Furthermore, by measuring the discrepancy between classified
messages and external ratings, we can identify entities whose
public messaging does not align with their actions, thereby
providing a methodology to identify potentially “inauthentic”
messaging campaigns.


#### Citation
    @InProceedings{wang2017words,
      author =       {Zhao Wang and Jennifer Cutler and Aron Culotta},
      title =        {Are Words Commensurate with Actions? {Q}uantifying Commitment to a Cause from Online Public Messaging},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the ACUMEN Workshop at the 17th {IEEE} International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM)},
      year =         2017,
    }