---
layout: post
category : User Attribute Inference
title: When do Words Matter? Understanding the Impact of Lexical Choice on
Audience Perception using Individual Treatment Effect Estimation
venue: AAAI 2019
authors: Zhao Wang, Aron Culotta
tags : [Twitter, perception]
key: zhao2019when
---
{% include JB/setup %}
#### Abstract

Studies across many disciplines have shown that lexical
choice can affect audience perception. For example, how
users describe themselves in a social media profile can affect their perceived socio-economic status. However, we lack
general methods for estimating the causal effect of lexical
choice on the perception of a specific sentence. While randomized controlled trials may provide good estimates, they
do not scale to the potentially millions of comparisons necessary to consider all lexical choices. Instead, in this paper, we
first offer two classes of methods to estimate the effect on perception of changing one word to another in a given sentence.
The first class of algorithms builds upon quasi-experimental
designs to estimate individual treatment effects from observational data. The second class treats treatment effect estimation as a classification problem. We conduct experiments
with three data sources (Yelp, Twitter, and Airbnb), finding
that the algorithmic estimates align well with those produced
by randomized-control trials. Additionally, we find that it is
possible to transfer treatment effect classifiers across domains
and still maintain high accuracy.


#### Citation

    @InProceedings{zhang2019words,
      author =       {Zhao Wang and Aron Culotta},
      title =        {When do words matter? {U}nderstanding the Impact of Lexical Choice on Audience Perception using Individual Treatment Effect Estimation},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the Thirty Third National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI 2019)},
      year =         2019,
    }